[Music]
[Applause]
me
[Music]
and be very my own to my lord and be
free
[Music]
[Applause]
ain't gonna let no
[Music]
No
[Applause]
[Music]
please welcome the American University
gospel choir
[Applause]
[Music]
when the say Oh Lord a wall
hole in the same with the same wooden
botany window say
Oh
[Music]
Oh in the same
open the same watching
[Applause]
Oh
[Music]
now to perform the heroic fanfare please
welcome the official fanfare ensemble to
the President of the United States the
United States Army Herald trumpets under
the direction of Lieutenant Colonel
Derek Shaw
[Applause]
[Music]
please welcome the choral Arts Society
of Washington DC under the direction of
Scott Tucker
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
ladies and gentlemen please rise my
father let us pray
we meet not in a moment of mourning but
in an hour of hope for this memorial
it's not only our remembrance of things
past but the touchstone of our present
and a right of dedication to our future
we gather here in this sacred place
where the memory of all our fallen
heroes propels our hearts toward the
highest aspirations of the nation to
proclaim to our fellow citizens and to
the world Bobby Kennedy still lives in
millions of hearts that seek a newer
world in millions of minds that dream
things that never were and ask why not
in every ripple of hope yet we make this
Proclamation not only through mere human
words or earthly gestures but in this
spirit of prayer that privileged place
in every soul where the grace of God
transforms our wounded hearts into
hearts of wounded healers where sorrow
is charged with meaning where human
weakness is redeemed and hope reborn and
so we pray that the god Bobby Kennedy
served so well will send his spirit upon
this morning
to guide our feet in the ways of peace
that His grace will open our eyes to new
vistas of human daring open our hearts
to the most vulnerable among us open our
hands to embrace the cause of justice
for above all Bobby Kennedy still lives
because the one in whose name we make
this prayer the one who was the source
and summit of his life
the one who was crucified and yet rose
triumphant he still lose thus Faith Hope
and love will never die amen
on behalf of my mother Ethel Kennedy and
our are you see in our very large family
I wanted to thank the staff at Arlington
Cemetery for being so kind and
accommodating and flexible I want to
thank President Clinton who Grace's us
with our presence his presence thank you
so very much
[Applause]
my family and I also thank those who
devoted their time and talent to making
the service possible
and to each of you for sharing in this
commemoration it is tough to lose a
parent it was very painful to lose my
father and yet a half a century later
each of you have come here
many traveling from far as far away as
Italy Ireland and Australia you share
our deep sense of loss and our happy
memories your presence is deeply moving
to the tribute and a tribute to the love
that my father inspired thank you for
remembering there is much to recall his
room was next to mine every morning he
listened to Shakespeare while doing
push-ups I woke to grunts and
Shakespeare in fact he was so good at
Shakespeare that he challenged Richard
Burton to Shakespeare reciting come
contest and of course my father won one
of his favorite plays was Henry the
fifth this is the story of a king who
enjoyed a dissolute youth but once
crowned led the English against a much
larger force at the Battle of Agincourt
on st. crispian's day the night before
the battle the English are ragged
disheartened and thinking themselves
doomed to defeat King Harry encourages
the troops he says and Crispian Crispian
shall ne'er go by from this day to the
ending of the world but we in it shall
be remembered we few we happy few we
band of brothers
for he today
sheds his blood with me shall be my
brother be near so vile this day shall
gentle his condition and gentlemen
England now Abed shall think themselves
accursed they were not here and hold
their manhoods cheap while any speaks
that fought with us upon Saint Crispin's
day after President Kennedy died our
father often recited the st. Crispin's
Day speech among his friends and with us
children as we walk the grounds of
Hickory Hill or in the woods nearby as
he recited this he was thinking of the
thousand days of the Kennedy
administration what had been
accomplished and the people with whom he
had served today as we come together we
are carrying on that legacy devotion to
justice dedications of freedom love for
our fellow women and men though these
are worthy goals they are not easily
achieved there is always a fight not
just on st. crispian's day but each hour
each day the odds are often long what
the play inspires is that each one of us
can do what our Father so admired about
Harry Harry fought cold fear he provided
hope encouragement a belief that what we
do is urgent and noble harry sees a
soldier is not as troops to command but
as brothers friends and countrymen I
would add sisters the point remains
difficulties do not stymie us we are
happy knowing that as we seek a newer
world we are bound to one another
we can make our own pledge to be a touch
of Harry in the night with courage we
can gentle our condition as we pursue a
feeling of justice and compassion for
those who suffer in our country and
around the world
thank you for lightening our burden and
lifting our hearts
ladies and gentlemen please welcome
Dolores Huerta president and founder of
the Dolores Huerta foundation
we must recognize the full human
equality of all of our people before God
before the law and in the council's of
government we must do this not because
it is economically advantageous although
it is not because the laws of God
commanded although they do not because
people in other lands wish it so we must
do it with a simple and fundamental
reason that it is the right thing to do
University of Capetown June the 6th 1966
please welcome grace
Martinez Rosa
all of us from the wealthiest to the
young children that I have seen in this
country loaded by starvation we are sure
one precious possession and that is the
name American it is not easy to know
what that means but in part to be an
American means to have been an outcast
and a stranger to have come to the
exiled country and to know that he who
denies the exile and the outcast and the
stranger still among us to also denies
America
[Music]
please welcome the former Prime Minister
of Italy the Honorable Matteo Renzi
[Applause]
too much and footlong we seem to have
surrendered personal excellence and
community values in the mere
accumulation of material things that
gross national products can't sell
pollution and cigarette advertising and
ambulances to clear our ways of carnage
it counts special locks for our doors
and the jail's for the people who break
them it counts the destruction of the
redwood and the loss of our natural
wonder in the chaotic sprawl it counts
napalm and it counts nuclear warheads
and armored cars for the police to fight
the riots in our cities it counts
Whitman's rifle and specks knife and the
television programs which glorify
violence in order to sell toys to our
children yet the gross national product
does not allow for the health of our
children the quality of the education of
the joy of the play it does not include
the beauty of our poetry of the strength
of our marriages the intelligence of our
public debate or the integrity of our
public officials it measures neither our
wit nor our courage neither our wisdom
nor our learning neither our compassion
our devotion to our country it measures
everything in short except that which
makes life worthwhile and it can tell us
everything about America except why we
are proud that we are America
if this is true here at home so it's
true also well in the world University
of Kansas March 18 1968
our next speaker evil Edelman served as
an ADA Robert F Kennedy from 1964 to
1968 and is currently a professor of law
at the Georgetown Law Center
we must if we seek not merely to lead
but to lead greatly act consistently
with our belief in human freedom and
equality those are the seminal values of
our entire history there should be no
doubt that we stand in Africa or Asia or
United or Latin America and in the
United States itself on the side of
equality and increasing freedom never
yielding that position to the demands of
temporary expediency or short-run
reality realism for if we allow
immediate considerations one by one to
chip away proclaimed ideals and values
then we soon stand for nothing at all
except ourselves Columbus Day dinner New
York City October 11th 1966
please welcome the Republic of Ireland's
ambassador to the United States his
Excellency Daniel Mulhall
[Applause]
the whole human experiment will fail
unless it can find unity and mediate its
disputes unless it can follow the paths
of economic growth and cooperation
unless above all it can realize the
equality and brotherhood of man these
are not cliches for anybody
they are the bare essentials of survival
for us all and on this small vulnerable
infinitely interdependent planet all of
us are seeking solutions under the spur
of potential Plenty as under the shadow
of potential destruction we are one our
triumphs and defeats are common the bell
chose for us all Addis Ababa Ethiopia
please welcome the executive director of
the Color of Change Rashad Robinson
your generation south and north white
and black is the first with the chance
to not only remedy the mistakes which
all of us have made in the past but to
transcend them your generation this
generation cannot afford to waste its
substance and its hope in the struggles
of the past for beyond these walls is a
world to be helped and improved and made
safe for the welfare of mankind 1966
University of Mississippi
our next speaker served as the Secretary
of the Navy from 2009 to 2017 please
welcome former Secretary of the Navy Ray
Mabus America was a great force in the
world with immense prestige long before
we became a great military power that
power has come to us and we cannot
renounce it but neither can we afford to
forget that the real constructive force
in the world comes not from bombs but
from imaginative ideas warm sympathies
and a generous spirit these are
qualities that cannot be manufactured by
a public relations specialist they are
the natural qualities of people pursuing
decency and human dignity in its own
undertakings without arrogance or
hostility our delusions of superiority
toward others a people whose ideals for
others are firmly rooted in the
realities of the society we have built
for ourselves University of Indiana
Bloomington Indiana April 24th 1968
please welcome the internationally
acclaimed Irish cheddar mark forest
[Applause]
[Music]
and he will raise you on eagle's wings
make you to shine like of his
and he'll in the shot goodbye eating his
shuttle for life
say to the Lord my refuge
my rock inhale
I trust yes he will raise door
make you to shine like the Sun
obvious
the snare of the Fowler will never
capture you and famine will bring you
north
under Sweeney or Fe his faithful nurse
your shield
[Music]
yes he will raise you up on eagle's
wings you won the breath of dawn
make you to shine like the Sun of his
[Music]
you need not fear the terrors of the
night Navi Aurora flies by day for
thousands fall about you
new you it shall not come
and he will raise you up on eagle's
wings one the breath of dawn
make you to shine like the Sun
[Music]
and for his angels he's given a command
to guard you in all of your ways
one of the hands he will bear you up
lest you dash your foot against
yes he will raise you up on eagle's
wings the breath of dawn
make you to shine like the Sun he will
halt
[Music]
of his
he will hold you in the
[Music]
[Applause]
from the Robert F Kennedy children's
Action Core please welcome
Bianca Fonseca idealism high aspirations
and deep convictions are not compatible
with the most practical and efficient of
programs that there is no basic and
consistency between ideals and realistic
possibilities no separation between the
deepest desires of heart and of mind and
of the rational application of human
effort to human problems it is not
realistic or hard-headed to solve
problems and take action unguided by the
ultimate moral aims and values in my
judgment it is thoughtless folly for the
four it ignores the realities of human
faith and of passion and of belief
forces ultimately more powerful than all
the calculations of our economics or of
our generals
please welcome the Honorable Nancy
Pelosi
I come to ask you to help in the tasks
of national reconciliation to place your
energies and your time in your strength
in the first work of America the
building of a nation United not on every
issue but in the enduring faith that we
are to be free that we are to have the
chance for a decent life that the
national natural condition of humanity
is not degradation but dignity this is
the faith that binds us together as
Americans it is this faith that shaped
this nation it is this faith that shall
preserve us from it we will find the
best within ourselves and the best
within our fellow citizens and we shall
win at the end of our Labour's a new
America Tuscaloosa March 21st 1968
ladies and gentlemen please welcome
Civil Rights icon Congressman John Lewis
and even in our sleep pain that cannot
forget falls drop by drop upon the heart
until an own despair I guess I will
comes wisdom through the awful grace of
God what we need in the United States
does not division what we need in the
United States is not hatred but love and
wisdom and compassion toward one another
and a feeling of Justice toward those
who still suffer within our country
whether they be white or whether they be
black let us dedicate ourselves to what
the Greeks wrote so many years ago to
tame the 7s a man and make gentle the
lie of this world in Annapolis 1968
Denis
the announcement of the assassination of
dr. Martin Luther King junior
you
from the American Federation of Teachers
please welcome Randi Weingarten our
choice is not whether change will come
but whether we can guide that change in
the service of our ideals and toward a
social order shaped to the deeds of all
our people in the long run we can master
change not through force of fear but
only through the free work of an
understanding mind through an openness
to new knowledge and fresh outlooks
which can only strengthen the most
fragile and most powerful of human gifts
the gift of Reason University of
Witwatersrand Johannesburg South Africa
June 8th 1966
the ladies and gentlemen please welcome
our next speaker
Emma Gonzales representing the student
movement marched for our lives 2018
recipients of the RFK Human Rights Award
[Applause]
first is the danger of futility the
believe there's nothing one man or one
woman can do against the enormous array
of this world's ills against misery and
ignorance injustice and violence yet
many of the world's great movements of
thought and action have flowed from the
work of a single man a young monk began
the Protestant Reformation a young
general extended an empire from
Macedonia to the borders of the earth
and a young woman reclaimed the
territory of France it was a young
Italian Explorer who discovered the new
world and a 32 year-old Thomas Jefferson
who proclaimed that all men are created
equal
give me a place to stand said Archimedes
and I will move the world
these men moved the world and so can we
all University of Cape Town South Africa
June 6 1966
please welcome congressman fred Upton UC
UC Berkeley October 22nd 1966 the future
does not belong to those that are in
content with today apathetic toward
common problems in their fellow man
alike timid and fearful in the face of
new ideas and bold projects rather it
will belong to those who can blend
passion reason encouraged in a personal
personal commitment to the ideology and
great enterprises of American society it
will belong to those who see that wisdom
can only emerge from the clash of
contending views the passionate
expression of deep in hostile beliefs
Plato said a life without criticism is
not worth living this is the seminal
spirit of American democracy it is the
spirit which can be found among many of
you it is this which is the hope of our
nation
ladies and gentlemen please welcome
country music legend Kenny Chesney thank
you this song was written by Woody
Guthrie and it's a promise of everything
that is good that our country has to
offer
all of us and in the last year I've
gotten to know Ethel and I've gotten to
know several of Bobby and Ethel's
children and their children's children
I've gotten to know their spirit their
personality and in their heart and that
being said I believe in my heart of
hearts that Bobby Kennedy carried the
promise of this song in his heart
till the data
[Music]
now was round never able to have supper
in the sky we saw blow me
this
I'm rolling round ball foul up my food
the spark was sad
this man
u.s.
this land is your land this land is my
from cow do a New York cab from the
redwoods till the Gulf Stream wall this
you man
[Music]
how strode and we feels way the dust
clouds rolling and all around me a voice
was sounding
this lands me for us
this land is your land this land is mine
from Cal Dylan New York
Cal come the redwood forest to the Gulf
Stream this
[Music]
this man you
this
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen please welcome
Congressman Joe Kennedy the third
[Applause]
empathy for those struggling and
striving indignation that the wealthiest
country on earth would leave children
hungry sick abandoned and alone
compassion for the least among us faith
that our nation that our world are
capable of better countless words have
been used to remember my grandfather
poetry has been written about the work
he did and the life he lived but for a
man who loved language it's the images
that tell his story best the caress of a
child's face and a shotgun house in the
Mississippi Delta his hand on the
shoulder of a coal miner in Eastern
Kentucky a small piece of bread shared
with Cesar Chavez in the dusty fields of
Delano images of a father son brother a
husband an uncle
of a family home adorned to this day
with photos of loved ones graduations
weddings silly moments grandkids
great-grandkids
his brood ever-growing his love ever
enduring of his extraordinary wife and
partner who fifty years after his
passing still wears her wedding ring
of a family who strives every day to
make him proud those images accumulate
here today of the Lourdes where time is
kindred chicano spirit of John Lewis my
brother and mentor of Emma Gonzales and
our army of young activists such
fearless stewards of a future my
grandfather imagined and summoned us to
for Robert F Kennedy this was the
measure of a life well-lived people a
human connection the touch the look the
moment between strangers friends where
we leave aside expectation and ego and
acknowledge each other's Worth and
wisdom where we pause and see each other
when we look past color or creed or
class and recognize a humanity we all
share our imperfections our
contradictions our hope for something
for a truer kinder tomorrow that
humanity anchored my grandfather it
carried him from the fields farm workers
to the hollows of Appalachia from the
sprawling reservations of Indian country
to the tenements of bed-stuy where in
the shadows in the background and the
quiet spaces that rarely saw it or got
attention
Robert Kennedy found the arteries of our
American heart and he said to those
forgotten your country sees you your
country values you America would not be
America without you
he held their hands he knelt by their
side
he shared their sorrows and he lifted
their spirits
he wasn't radical or revolutionary he
was human and willing to be vulnerable
it was his greatest gift to give
he felt so intensely the suffering of
others and from that pain arose the
moral force to relieve it he saw their
dreams and dared to ask why not
today we also remember a father who
delighted in the laughter of his
children long walks with his dogs
football with his family the smile of
his wife we celebrate a leader who saw
potential and every child and fought for
a government that did the same we
recommit ourselves to his higher calling
the very thing at stake today of a
country who accepts you for who you are
[Applause]
25 years ago in this very place a family
friend stood and recalled the journey of
my grandfather then just six months into
his term President Bill Clinton eloquent
they were called a man who quote went
places most leaders never visit listened
to people most leaders never hear and
spoke a simple truth most leaders never
speak most of all President Clinton
implored us to remember quote the
powerful beautiful the simple faith of
Robert Kennedy we can do better
ladies and gentlemen it is my honor to
introduce him once more here today
please join me in welcoming president
William Jefferson Clinton
[Applause]
you
and what he means today in 1968 after a
couple of two multis years leading up to
it everyday seemed to bring a new piece
of bad news in a deepening division in
america it was my last semester in
college here at Georgetown somebody said
what did you do at the end of your
college career well Martin Luther King
got killed on April the 4th just a few
days before that President Johnson said
he wouldn't run again the country was so
divided over Vietnam and everybody
feared the whole thrust of the civil
rights movement could be lost as John
Lewis proved again the best remarks
given after dr. King was killed I
believe were embodied in Robert
Kennedy's finest speech in Indianapolis
we rocked along through two months of
turmoil and then he won in California in
the primary I still remember the vote -
you lost Oregon by a little bit and then
won in California 45 to 42 and God
forgive me for being incorrect but I was
so glad they had winner-take-all
primaries like that
why am I saying this when we're all
being so lofty because he was a
flesh-and-blood man who fought in real
life because in this time when we seem
to think our clan and tribe were more
important than anything else and require
us to be divided from one another he
came as you see here from quite a clan
and he did every single thing he could
to increase it and as you have heard the
Kennedy clan was clearly an Irish tribe
and those of us who share that heritage
were proud of it
what was the difference the difference
was that he embodied the whole message
of the faith of his fathers and mothers
before his Holiness Pope Francis called
us to engage in a culture of encounter
he viscerally instinctively lived a life
of encounter the life of the
outstretched hand not the clenched fist
he lived it in Appalachia in the
Mississippi Delta and Watson bed-stuy
on Native American reservations among
farm workers who had no one else to look
after them then all the way to the
townships the South Africa still
groaning under apartheid
did he ever once give up his clan or his
tribe no he said what does that got to
do with whether we can live together
what does that got to do with winter we
have to acknowledge that our common
humanity is even more important than our
interesting differences and he did
something unusual for a politician back
then when you couldn't check every word
every day he actually said the same
thing everywhere he went he would go
into a working-class neighborhood and
tell them exactly the same thing he
would say in a poor neighborhood of
African Americans he would stand in the
synagogue and say the same thing he
would say at a Knights of Columbus
meeting and if we had had a large Muslim
population back then he would have gone
to them and said you too can be part of
America if you share our values and our
vision
[Applause]
the Native Americans literally the
National Congress of American Indians 90
tribes for his work with him gave him a
tribal name Braveheart his Braveheart
took him to California to be with Cesar
Chavez to make a 200 mile trip across
Appalachia to see the shacks where
parents struggled to feed their children
to visit the Pine Ridge Reservation in
South Dakota in the middle of the
Indiana primary race to enrage the
apartheid government in South Africa by
plunging into the crowds in Soweto and
shaking hands he encountered people and
challenged all of us to do the same
his message really no matter how dressed
up in the finest poetry never changed we
can do better and because we can we must
he gave it over and over and over and
while the words were beautiful look at
the film's if you weren't alive then
that are coming up now the energy was
awesome and the intensity of conviction
burned away like a blowtorch all those
layers
of complacency and comfort show up stand
up we can do better and he didn't let
anybody off the hook he said yeah I want
to help you but you got to work hard and
all you comfortable middle-class people
you don't have a lot of money to give
away you need to do something to serve
your community and worker community and
all of you people who are rich like me
we don't need this much you need to give
more so we can grow together and prosper
together and oh by the way we'll all be
better off but you should do it as you
heard because it's the right thing to do
there's something for everybody to do 50
years later he would say I'm 92 now and
you have to listen to me from a distance
I still try to speak to the young we
stood up for Emma you know why I love
that because she and her generation are
the first people who have made sensible
sane gun safety laws a voting issue in
this country
and
[Applause]
I was president we passed the assault
weapons ban in the ammunition limit and
we did all that wait wait wait we did it
all but we couldn't make it a voting
issue and we got our brains beat out
when she and her colleagues said we do
not deserve to die in school schools
need not be a killing ground Bobby
Kennedy would say hey nobody's trying to
take away your right Tahaan supports you
to defend your family but we should take
away the option to commit mass murder
with killing machines without an
adequate background check for sure
that's what she did
that's the kind of thing that's the kind
of thing he did viscerally I never saw
anything like it at our 50th reunion I
was trying to determine what to say and
I kept thinking about Bobby Kennedy
because when he died early on the
morning of June the 6th one of my
roommates was volunteering in his office
Tommy Catholics here with me today and
he was we stayed up to watch him win and
then he's on my bed beating on me they
shot and they shot and all I could think
about was that in his campaign Robert
Kennedy said it is not too late to seek
a newer world he loved Tennyson's
Ulysses and it was perfect it was like
hey I'm a 42 year old cool guy and young
people can relate to me and we're gonna
do great things we can make America
again
again but for all of you who were there
then you get to join the young people
today because go back and read Ulysses
it is the poem of an old man saying you
can't quit and there is still something
good you can do your age is a state of
mind your commitment was never waiver
and we have got to stop hating each
other it's bad for us and that includes
and by the way that includes the members
of our clans and our tribes the
outstretched hand beats the cleanse fish
so I ask you as he would if he were 92
standing here thank you very much for
showing up and saying all the nice
things and reciting my words but it all
amounted to me saying we can do better
and because we can we must so let us
resolve to do better then Ulysses when
he said it was not too late to seek a
newer world Ulysses is calling his old
gang together and say what do you say we
get on the ship one more time and sail
beyond the Western scars until we die
just one more time we can still do it
some work of Noble note may yet be done
though we are not now that strength
which in old days moved earth and heaven
that which we are we are made weak by
time and fate but strong in will
here's Robert Kennedy in a line to
strive to seek to find and not to yield
we thank him after 50 years because we
can still feel the energy in the parades
reaching across the convertible tops in
the shacks of Appalachia in the depths
of watts and yes all the way to Soweto
we can do it all over again but we have
to do it the way he did speaking to
everybody saying the same thing to
everybody with a heart full of love and
an outstretched hand his legacy has
brought us here and will see us on God
bless you
representing the rfk fellows please
welcome BJ Stiles
few men are willing to brave the
disapproval of their fellows the sensor
of their colleagues are the wrath of
their society moral courage is a rarer
commodity than bravery and battle our
great intelligence and yet it is the one
essential vital quality for those who
seek to change the world which yields
most painfully to change Aristotle tells
us at the Olympic Games it is not the
finest or the strongest men who are
crowned but those who enter the list so
to in the life of the honorable and the
good it is they who act rightly who win
the prize I believe that in this
generation those with courage to enter
the conflict will find themselves with
companions in every corner of the world
the day of affirmation address
University of Cape Town June 6 1966
from tippity health please welcome CEO
Donato
Ramudu through the history of the world
the boundaries of great empires have
faded and dissolved their cities their
cities have fallen into decay and their
wealth scattered what remains is what
they accomplished of enduring value and
what they stood for what remains is the
contribution they made to the unity and
knowledge and understanding of man what
remains is what they added to the hopes
and the well-being of human civilization
and to its capacity for future progress
none of us here as individuals seeks
success or wealth purely for its own
sake we all hope to make a larger
contribution to our families our
occupation our profession our community
and our country this must be true
also for America as a nation if we wish
to take that luminous and lasting place
in history which is now within our own
grasp the goals of American foreign
policy Columbus Day dinner New York City
October 11th 1966
[Applause]
please welcome the CEO of Patagonia Rose
Macario
we live today in an era of challenge
this is a time of uncertainty and peril
it's also a time of great opportunity
the decisions we make as a people as a
government during the next few years
will affect the planet for generations
to come
I come to ask you not only for your
understanding of these challenges but
for your active partnership and efforts
to meet them for the government is your
government it requires your ideas your
collaboration your criticism and your
support if it's to meet its
responsibilities all of us are most
concerned about what type of America we
want to pass on to our children every
generation inherits a world it never
made and as it does so it automatically
becomes the trustee of that world for
those who come after in due course each
generation makes its own accounting to
its children Columbia South Carolina
from the international indigenous youth
council 2018 recipients of the RFK Human
Rights Award
please welcome Lauren Howland my name is
Lauren Holland I come from the Hickory
Apache reservation in Dulce New Mexico
the Danai nation in New Mexico and the
San Carlos Apache nation of Arizona I am
part of the international indigenous
Youth Council our answer is the world's
only hope it is to rely on youth their
cruelties and obstacles of the swiftly
changing planet will not yield to the
obsolete dogmas and worn out slogans it
cannot be moved by those who cling to a
present which is already dying who
prefer the illusion of security to the
excitement and danger which comes with
even the most peaceful progress this
world demands the qualities of youth not
a time of life but a state of mind a
temper of the will a quality of the
imagination a predominance of courage
over timidity of the appetite for
adventure over the life of ease it is a
revolutionary world that we all live in
and thus as I have said in Latin America
and Asia and in Europe and in my own
country the United States it is the
young people who must take the lead
University of Capetown June 6 1966
ladies and gentlemen please welcome
Senator Edward Markey
it is from numberless diverse acts of
courage and belief that human history is
shaped each time a man stands up for an
ideal or acts to improve the lot of
others or strikes out against injustice
he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope and
crossing each other from a million
different centers of energy and daring
those ripples build a current which can
sweep down the mightiest walls of
oppression and resistance University of
Cape Town in South Africa June 6 1966 52
years ago today
please welcome back to the stage the
choral Arts Society of Washington
[Applause]
[Music]
in this sacred place with these special
memories someone very special to us all
we are indeed in the presence of God so
we pray good and gracious God we thank
you for the vision the compassion the
commitment to justice that brings us
together to commemorate one who
challenges us to our very best
robert francis kennedy we share in the
magnanimity of his vision the
inspiration of his words and the
generosity of his actions may we be the
source of the energy creativity
generosity and love in the pursuit of
the ideals that he worked so hard to
bring our nation and world together
maybe share his compassion for the poor
the needy the oppressed the Forgotten
maybe share his ability to bring women
and men together breaking down barriers
that divide us and build instead what
unites us maybe work to heal those who
are wounded to bring hope to the
hopeless and to live our dreams for a
better nation in a better world in a
special way bless the Kennedy family
from Ethel ever at Bobby's side to the
youngest children as they keep alive
Roberts vision faith courage
and service to others as we go forth
from here bless us all with the power to
unite and to stir hope in our time we
ask all of this in confidence that you
are with us making possible what we
cannot do ourselves amen please welcome
the American University Gospel Choir
under the direction of Celeste a sledge
[Applause]
[Music]
you